---
title: 'Vipassana Meditation'
description: 'Meditate diligently...'
pubDate: 'April 20 2024'
heroImage: '/blog/dhamma_anuradha.jpg'
---

bongg…
Half asleep, half awake I turn my body to the other side of the bed

Bongg…
Faint sounds can be heard in the distance. I know exactly what it means which is why I hope I am still dreaming

BONGGGGGGG
There is no more room for uncertainty, it is the start of a new day. Uhhhh, from where did I get the idea to register for this shit? How many days are left? Four or five? I am not sure.

BONGGGGGGGGGGGHHH
Slowly but surely I accept my fate. My eyes remain closed while I enjoy the soft touches of wind on my skin generated by the ventilator above me. The sounds produced by the other more eager participants is my sad form of entertainment for the next half hour. I hear footsteps, running water from the tap, the brushing of teeth, the washing of clothes and running showers. In this semi conscious state minutes pass like seconds, the drowsiness is returning until suddenly 

BONGGGGGGGGGGGHHHHHHHHHH
BONGGGGGGGGGGGHHHHHHHHHH
BONGGGGGGGGGGGHHHHHHHHHH

The time has come… five more minutes until the start of the early morning session. For half a minute I survey my environment before deciding to move on to the final phase of my extensive awakening ritual. With slow deliberate movements, I retrieve the pink mosquito net from above, deftly twirling it to create a knot. I leave my room and slowly walk down the corridor towards the exit of the residence. It’s a bad habit of mine, especially here, but I can’t help staring at the faces of the other participants. What are they feeling right now? We’ve seen each other already for 6 days yet we haven’t uttered one single word to one another. Even though we cannot talk, our sense of solidarity which we have built is a great source of inspiration which might be the only thing that keeps us going.

I open the door, put on my stinky slippers and I commence my daily route towards the dhamma hall. It is pitch black all around me. Involuntarily, I am conscious of every step I make. Not only the feeling of rubber with every step I make, but also the contracting muscles, the slight touches of fabric of my pants on my legs and the cold early morning breeze all across my body. The lush surrounding greenery and the mellow melodies of numerous birds are keeping me company on my short journey.

My sleep quality is a lot to be desired yet my mind is as clear as day already. A short memory of an old sleep deprived friend of mine screaming SLEEP IS FOR THE WEAK pops into my mind. I chuckle while I patiently wait in line to enter the hall. Some folks apply the provided mosquito repellent, perhaps experimenting with it for the first time or clinging to a peculiar belief in its efficacy on certain days. Upon entering the hall, my gaze meets the girls filling in from the opposite direction.They reside on the right side while the men, to their disappointment, have to remain on the left side. I slowly step towards my designated meditation cushion and sit down in the most comfortable position my sleep deprived mind can come up with, fully aware that in just a few minutes my posture will cause unimaginable levels of pain. One more time I look at the people around me. Some have an expression of pain on their face, others are experimenting different postures and the most determined amongst us have already started meditating. My competitive nature arises which fuels me with the energy to start myself. I look at the clock one more time, It’s 4:30. With a relatively equanimous mind I accept my situation. I cross my legs, straighten my back and I close my eyes. Hummmmmmm…