---
title: 'Road To Goa'
description: 'A nightmarish busride...'
pubDate: 'January 20 2024'
heroImage: '/blog/road_to_goa.jpg'
---

Sometimes while walking I want to forget where I am, who I am and what it is that I’m exactly doing. I want to walk until my legs give out. Doesn’t matter whether I go left, right or forward… as long as I am going somewhere. The scenery is ever-changing, the people I cross all have different faces, clothes, lifes. I tend to wonder where they’re going. Home to their families, their friends? How did their day go? What are their dreams? Will I ever see these people again? Will I remember? I am not sure why but doing this is rather therapeutic, especially after a long day.

Reaching this state in India however is both very difficult and suicidal. It’s not that hard to guess why this is the case. All your attention is dedicated to dodging a sea of people that are coming your way. It’s like you’re playing crazy taxi but instead of overtaking people, they are charging towards you. It also doesn’t help that I’m literally a turtle while traveling. The backpack that I am carrying is one and a half times as wide as me which messes with my spatial awareness. If you’re not dodging people, you are dodging cars. They say that the cars here honk to warn someone regarding their position but these drivers do not seem to realize that everyone is doing this. The end result is a 360 degree immersive surround symphony of cars.

I decided to go for half the experience: semi therapeutic, semi suicidal. It’s the most my noise canceling earphones are able to give. As I pass the sea of people in front of me I have only one objective in my mind: get to the redbus stop in time! For those unaware of what Redbus is: it’s like flixbus but better. It’s cheaper, has a good app with live tracking, a generous refund policy and beds for longer distances. At last I reached my destination according to maps, my gut feeling however was saying something else. I was basically in the middle of a highway with no other people waiting besides me. The only redeeming factor is a small sign with “Kalanagar bus stop” written on it.

The closer the time of departure reaches, the more anxious I get. My gut feeling was still there, telling me that something’s wrong. I agreed with my gut but there was not much more that I could do. All I could do was wait, wait … and wait some more, but the bus did not arrive. I checked the live location of the bus through the app which immediately filled me with a sense of relief: it was delayed by one hour. So I waited some more, but this time I was not alone anymore. I was surrounded by a dozen mosquitos. They weren’t exactly my friends but playing the kill or get stung game did fill the time. Every 5 minutes I’d check the location of the bus only to see it has moved by just a few meters.

After 40 minutes I received a call from an unknown number. I knew it was from Redbus but I thought they called to notify me that they’ll arrive soon. I picked up the phone expecting to answer with a “yes yes i am at the pickup point” but instead I answered with “AM I NOT AT THE PICKUP POINT?”. You see, the bus had already arrived, the driver was confused about my whereabouts and was about to leave. Haphazardly I try to describe my whereabouts: “I… I am in the middle of the highway, I see an apple store right in front of me”. When they replied with “Apple store???” I lost all hope. Next, it was their turn to describe their whereabouts but they somehow performed even worse than me… “There is another bus next to us”. They had nothing more to give.

I gave up on communication and told the other person on the line to give me 5 minutes and hung up. They did not give me 5 minutes but instead called me over and over again. I was desperately looking around me, I stopped every person that I saw and yelled: “KALANAGAR BUS STOP WHERE???”. I must’ve looked like a lunatic. Each person I encountered gave a quarter of the way and at last I saw 2 buses. The driver screams for me to get in. I jumped on the bus, there were a couple of people surrounding me but I did not mind. They were in fact as happy as I was that I arrived.

We had a quick exchange of words. They wanted me to leave a good review since they were so kind to me. So far every redbus I took asked for a good review so I was not new to the idea and they could indeed have just left me there. I promised them that I would (I have not yet hihi) and went further inside the bus. Since this kind of bus contains beds, the alley is very narrow. I fit perfectly but my chonky backpack does not so I have to awkwardly carry it sideways in front of me. My bed was all the way towards the back, upper bunk. There was no space downstairs to put my backpack so I had no choice but to use it as a body pillow.

I wake up the next day by the talking of the people around me. The bus was not moving and people were exiting the bus even though we were in the middle of nowhere. I heard and felt some loud banging from time to time but at this point I accepted this as part of life in India. However, after half an hour my suspicions began to grow again. A family next to me was about to exit and they told me to join them. Their English was very limited but I had nothing better to do so I tagged along with them.

I grabbed my big backpack and followed the alley out of the bus. Right before the exit the father of the family initiated a conversation with the bus driver. Since the alley is so narrow I could not pass so I would be waiting for them to finish their heart-to-heart talk. After about 15 minutes the father would turn to me and say that the engine was broken down and we were waiting for another bus to come and get us. I thanked him for informing me and tried to strike a conversation myself but the language barrier was a big limiting factor together with my (and probably their) exhaustion. *“Are you taking a vacation with your family to Goa???”, -”No no, we live here” *”Nice…”. End of talk,

Luckily the next bus had just arrived. We enter it only to be greeted with no additional seating and no further explanation. From the other end of the alley a tall man with body tattoos came charging towards me. He informed me that he had held in his shit for at least 8 hours and that it is now time to unleash the storm. I did not want to prevent this man from fulfilling his duties but at the same time all space was already taken. Fortunately, a kind family came to my rescue. They made some space for me to sit together with my backpack. It was not the most comfortable spot but my feelings of gratitude were stronger than my sensation of discomfort.

The tattooed man rushed to the toilet only to come back 1 minute later with a disappointed face. I felt a lot of empathy towards him. By good fortune the ride only took half an hour more. At last I have arrived in Panjim, Goa! But Panjim is not the place to be and thus another adventure starts to arrive at a beautiful beach. The morning sun gave me a renewed sense of energy. I put on my backpack and headed out!