---
title: 'The Great Yama'
description: 'A mighty demon controls our life...'
pubDate: 'July 22 2024'
heroImage: '/blog/the_great_yama.jpg'
---

At the beginning of your life, Yama spins the wheel of life. This wheel isn't just any wheel; it represents your own journey through rebirth. Behind the wheel looms Yama, a terrifying three eyed red demon that is wearing a crown made of skulls. His formidable stature makes all look puny in comparison. Slowly he moves his arms and legs towards the rim of the wheel denoting his control over your fate. Not your destiny of this life but that of the next. Eventually, at some point or another, the wheel will be stopped by one of his grotesque limbs. Which limb will he use you ask? Well… that depends. Will you die a slow and painful death from an insidious disease or will you be pierced through the heart by an arrow? Perhaps a more amusing death awaits you such as being boiled alive by a group of sinister witches. Or, if you’re lucky, you will live a long and peaceful life with your loved ones near you as you depart this world. 

Once your wheel stops, your next destination in life will be determined. Will you climb up towards a higher realm where you'll pass your life as a demi-god chasing frivolous pleasures till the end of time. Or will you descend down a lower realm where you’ll wander endlessly as a ghost in search of a cure. 

Getting cold feet? Don’t worry, I’ll let you in on a little secret. You and me… we are human! We’re living on this globe with seemingly no purpose except to survive one more day. We have our good times, our bad ones, but most importantly we can choose whether a day was good or not. We are in complete control of what we do with our time. This consciousness of every action is a curse in disguise of a blessing or vice-versa depending on the day. If this consciousness is left unchecked we behave like mere animals inflicting pain to ourselves and our loved ones.

This precondition of what makes us human is one of the most difficult things to control just like marching a windy mountain trail while trying to keep the fire from a lucifer alive. But if one manages to do that till the very end, they say that you’d have reached nirvana. Although depicting nirvana as a goal shows just how far I am off the path myself. I invite you to walk down this path with me so that we can help the lost souls around us.

om mani padme hum…
om mani padme hum…
om mani padme hum…

As I frantically recited the mantra, trying to calm my anxious mind, I found myself locking eyes with a stranger. In that moment, I could tell with near certainty that a story not far from the one you read above was playing in her mind like a movie as she listened to my plea. My performance, I must admit, was miserable at best; my intense anxiety clutched my eloquence just like Yama clutches the wheel of life. A friendly reminder that giving up on my short-lived game of becoming a comedian was probably a good choice.

At first, I was barely able to mutter a few incoherent words: “You… Revolut… have?”. I hoped with all my heart that she had heard of Revolut before, as it is quite popular amongst travelers, and would immediately jump to my aid. But it seemed that I was the one dreaming, not her. She answered me with a firm no. Before I knew it, I was giving a broken sales pitch of Revolut as though I was a crooked salesman at an airport. One thing that has always puzzled me is that people do tend to trust me rather quickly, especially while traveling. Is it my exhausted zombie-like face or maybe the contrast between my poorer than poor look and my soft spokenness? Her sympathetic demeanor helped me to regain some control of my disposition and I was able to explain my story.

I told her how I had waited patiently for my turn to use the ATM at the airport. When it was finally my turn, I opened my wallet, but my card wasn’t there. A desperate search later, and my situation hadn’t improved. I closed the wallet, told myself I was dreaming, opened it again, only to be confronted once more with reality. After repeating this process a few more times, my knees were becoming weak, and I felt the need to sit down. I was crouching over on a bench, with both my arms supporting my head, which wanted to smash itself against the floor.

After a thorough recollection of my memories of the past 24 hours I suddenly made the connection. I forgot to take back my card from an ATM in Thailand while I was in a rush. A huge sense of shame engulfed me. I reminded myself of all the times I ridiculed people that were in the same situation. Simultaneously I could feel the spirits of my loved ones that despise my careless disposition chanting I TOLD YOU SO. Several miserable minutes later I mustered up the courage to seek help, so well… that’s where we are right now.

She listened carefully to each word of my story and sympathized greatly with me. She told me she trusted me (somehow) and wanted to help by giving me some cash. She was from the Netherlands, so I could probably just make an international bank transfer. A few chitchats later, I found out she had just finished a very costly yoga retreat in Thailand. She told me about her life-changing experience there and how she made impactful, lasting connections with people from all over the world. She and some of her new friends wanted to make a final stop in Nepal before heading back home. My cynical nature couldn’t help but be skeptical about these lavish yoga retreats, but I decided to conceal that part of myself since, at that moment, she was the angel lifting me from the pits of homelessness.

One passport control later her previously mentioned friends tagged along. The energy of the group was so bright it was blinding. They talked about positivity, chakra, spirituality and dejavu. The stereotypes couldn’t be closer to the truth. I felt out of place like a sore thumb but my situation and my tiredness heavily subdued this feeling. The prospect of having a bed at the end of the day provided all the solace I needed.

Nepal has a notorious reputation for having some of the worst ATMs in the world. Usually, I’m skeptical of travel advice I read online—it’s often a far stretch from the truth. But this time, to my wonderful bad luck, it was not. I cannot comprehend how a country that relies so heavily on tourism has such pathetic ATMs. Perhaps it’s meant to prepare you for the fact that nothing in this country works properly. Even something as mundane and essential as the road is in a sorry state. After hopping from ATM to ATM for the next hour or so, we finally managed to find one that worked, but this is not where my problems ended.

Sure, the Dutch yoga girl trusted me, but how much money would you give to someone you’ve barely known for an hour? Bank transfers take time and can easily be faked. All I could do was ask her to trust my words and have faith. There was one way, she told me. The Dutch have this option to send a payment request managed through their bank. It would at least give her confirmation that the money would arrive eventually. However, after several failed attempts, we decided to switch to a normal bank transfer. Alas, this also seemed to fail without giving any insightful error message. I became desperate as I watched the happy-go-lucky yoga woman become less happy and less lucky with each passing moment.

As a last attempt, I tried calling my family one by one. I felt terrible doing this since it had been a while since we talked. The first thing I would ask after weeks of silence was for money. I felt like the scum of the earth, but I had no choice. Luckily, my sister picked up quickly and was willing to help me out without needing a lengthy explanation—god bless her. I read out loud the bank account number from the payment offer the yoga girl had sent me. My sister made the payment, and I thought my nightmare had finally ended. I proudly showed the payment confirmation to my loanshark, only to be met with puzzlement, confusion, and annoyance rather than relief. She looked me straight in the eyes and said, “The bank account is incorrect.” My heart skipped a hundred beats as I began to mutter like a lost child: “Correct… Not… Why? :(”

The inner workings of the Dutch payment invitation mechanisms started to become clear to me, but how could I possibly explain this to my sister? “Yo sis, you transferred money to the wrong account, haha, my bad x.” I had a premonition that no amount of rational explanation would clear up this mess. Plus, we wouldn’t know what would happen to the money she transferred, since it was an account belonging to the yoga girl’s bank. I dreaded the thought of asking my sister to make another transfer. Meanwhile, the yoga girls had finished their withdrawals, and though they tried to hide their eagerness to leave, their impatience was as obvious as a neon sign. Even the brightest sun sets at some point.

I gathered the last of my energy and managed to make the transfer to the correct account on my own. I showed the confirmation to the yoga girl and, like a desperate apprentice begging for his master’s approval, I practically knelt before her, hoping she would end my suffering. She gave a positive nod, handed over the money, and we started moving towards the taxi area. They insisted that I tag along with them, though their plans were as inconsistent as the German train system. One minute they were supposed to meet someone from Workaway, the next they wanted to go trekking and stay at a hostel.

During our walk, I tried to update my sister about the latest developments while also trying to appease her. The former went better than the latter. She bombarded me with questions from all sides: “Bloody hell, what should I do?”, “What went wrong?”, “Can you trust this girl?”, “Will we get our money back?” While trying to answer her questions, I was dodging honking cars from every direction. It was rush hour in Kathmandu. The yoga girls had found a cab through a platform similar to Uber, but it couldn’t enter the airport. All the driver could scream was “MAIN ROAD! MAIN ROAD!” So, we tried to find the MAIN ROAD, but it was dark, and we were primarily focused on staying alive. I tried to use my haggling skills learned in India to strike a good deal, but the drivers were adamant about the inflated price. Meanwhile, my sister thought I was talking to her:

“Bhaji (brother in Nepalese), do you drive to Thamel?”<br><br>
"500 rupees"<br><br>
“That’s way too much bhaji, on uber it costs 200”<br><br>
“Damian, who is Bhaji?! What 500?”<br><br>
*Doesn’t even have the motivation to answer back*<br>

After a while, we managed to find our driver, but the car was ridiculously small. There was no way it could fit five people, let alone our enormous backpacks, which could double as our homes. Like every Nepali would say: “No problem.” The idea of earning a decent amount of money far outweighed the risk of us losing our bags. He threw our bags on top and loosely bound them with a piece of rope. It was a perfect balance between tightness and slack, showcasing a true mastery of minimal effort.

Finally, we were on our way. The yoga girls regained some energy and struck up a conversation with the driver. I decided to check on the payment situation with my sister. She told me she’d tried to chat with an employee named An, but as soon as she explained her situation, An left the chat. It was a Friday afternoon, the last hour before the weekend, so An clearly didn’t give enough fucks. I tried to start a chat as well, only to discover I was also talking to An. My hope that An would be more patient with me was indeed unfounded; An truly didn’t give a fuck and left the chat too.

By this time, we arrived at the homestay where the girls were staying. I stepped out and was the first one to greet the homeowner. The conversation went something like this: 
Shake hands<br><br>
**Owner**: “Hi, I’m excited to meet you!”<br><br>
**Me**: “Me too, but it’s also time to say goodbye already.”<br><br>
**Owner**: “Huh?”<br><br>
**Me**: “By the way, I know it’s recently been made illegal to do the Annapurna trek alone, but… you know, it should still be possible, right?” <br><br>
**Owner**: “Yeah, you’ll be fine”<br><br>
 **Me**: “Yay, see you!”<br><br>
**Owner**: “See you :D”<br><br>
It was time to part ways with the yoga girls. We hugged each other tightly like old friends and wished each other safe travels. That’s one of the things I really love about the travel community. Those goodbyes feel so sincere, even though you might have only met each other for a few minutes.

I hopped into the cab and headed to the hostel I’d booked last minute. The drive was short and pleasant. It felt like I could finally relax. I had a place to sleep and enough money to survive at least for a little while. The cab driver complained about the yoga girls, but all I could do was laugh along. When I arrived at the hostel, the second I walked in, I was greeted with a loud scream from a strong, small, and chubby man. He gave me a firm handshake and a hug. And well, my readers… This would be the start of yet another adventure.
