---
title: 'The Vigilant Monk'
description: 'A fateful late night encounter...'
pubDate: 'November 20 2023'
heroImage: '/blog/vigilant_monk.jpg'
---

The late night breeze from the open window on the train is the only thing that is keeping me away from a deep slumber. I gaze outside from my window, feeling like the protagonist of a budget indie movie. There is not much to see, just a few silhouettes and a bit of grass. It's enough to keep my mind wandering. My thoughts are walking and walking in circles, thousands of ideas come up but none remain.

I am checking my phone every few minutes to see if I have almost arrived, although I am fully aware that it takes at least half an hour more. I pondered how travellers, no even locals, managed to know when to hop off back in the day. It's pitch black and no soul or computer is present to make an announcement. My guess is that people used to count stations or estimate how long the ride would take and hop off around that time. Although such strategies would fail in my particular case, the train is already 1 hour late.

I step off the train at around 4am which was still moving ever so slightly, just to feel a small rush. To my fortune, the station was populated with kind souls and the presence of a few guards let me feel at ease. I went to a charging point (take note Belgium) to refill my empty phone. On my way I took a glimpse of my surroundings. I see people sitting on their phones, guards staring into the void but also a vending machine. A very modern one with a touch screen larger than an ipad. Just as a fly is attracted by the light I caught myself moving towards the screen to order a drink. The machine had more than 30 options. I already struggle with just 3 options so as you can imagine I was shivering in fear. But my thirst was louder than my indecisiveness and thus I ordered just under a minute. The same duration it takes for the machine to make the drink. While my refreshment was being prepared you could hear all kinds of sounds coming from the machine. Shaking, stirring, banging, twirling, you name it. I was under the impression that there was a tiny human in the vendingmachine preparing the drink for me. Although that would be rather stressful since the screen shows a timer right to your face and potentially to the human inside. At last the drink was finished. Absolutely delicious, the little gnome did a good job indeed.

While I was sipping from my drink, I saw a monk close to me charging his phone. He was wearing a typical orange monk dress, was bald and rather chubby for a person of his status. He was potentially a corrupt monk or maybe he was just your average joe who liked to wear monk uniforms at 4am. It looks pretty comfortable to be fair. I was minding my own business but once in a while I would notice his gaze towards me. Or rather to be more precise, towards my drink. At that time I was not aware that he was craving my delicious fristy. I assumed he was merely curious about me. The man, clearly in pain, was offering me money. He was pointing to me and to the machine behind me. It took him several attempts of intense pointing together with the help of a local for me to understand the man's wish. During this whole process he would not utter one single word

I felt confused but honoured that the monk chose me for this important mission. I gladly accepted and was on my way to the machine. Upon my arrival I noticed that the monk underestimated the price of this mission. I had no choice but to return to the charging spot and ask for more funding. The monk wasn't happy about this but he succumbed. I rush back to the machine, I navigate the menu's ever so swiftly and ordered the drink. I was starting to understand why he chose me above the others despite the minor language barrier. Slowly the drink was being prepared, the timer was ticking and I could hear the tiny man struggling again. This minute truly felt like an eternity. I would glance from time to time at the old man just to see him stare right at me. Analyzing every move I made. One minute later the drink was ready. I was happy that I succeeded in my mission and I was eager to deliver the drink. Upon arrival I handed over the beverage in his hand with a big smile on my face, but he never looked back at me. He took the drink and didn't budge his face nor his mouth.

At this point I thought by myself that the man was a mute or that he took a honourable vow of silence. But after a few minutes fellow monks arrived and, to my surprise, he was cracking jokes right in front of my face. I felt betrayed, how could he treat me like that? Ashamed, I decided to walk to my next destination...